Christian wives, are you happy?
Do you love being a wife?
Well, probably right now
you’re looking at your husband
and saying, “Of course.”
That’s good.
But could you add
even more joy to your marriage?
You may be thinking,
‘Yes, if only my husband would . . .’
and you finish the sentence.
But I think most husbands would admit
that we have
some room for improvement.
But this talk is for you.
What can you do as a wife
to add joy to your marriage?
Well, one of the first things is
to think about your God-assigned role.
Open, please, to Genesis 2:18.
Now, here Jehovah is going to explain
why he was making a wife for Adam:
“Then Jehovah God said:
“‘It is not good for the man
to continue to be alone.
“‘I am going to make a helper for him,
as a complement of him.’”
So Eve was going to be a helper
as a complement of Adam.
What is a complement?
Well, we feel sure that you sisters
know a lot about complementary colors.
When you go to pick out
an outfit with accessories,
you pick those with colors
that blend well together,
that are a harmonious combination.
Or when you’re making a meal,
you know there are certain foods
that go well with other foods,
or complement, other foods,
like a Korean sister making kimchi
probably will make rice.
Or pasta with cheese,
bacon and eggs, bread and butter
—there are so many combinations
that complement one another.
So when Jehovah God created Eve,
he built into her feminine qualities
that he knew would really work well
with Adam’s masculine qualities.
So Adam and Eve had a prospect
of being a perfectly matched couple
that could work well together.
Eve could be fully happy
in working with her husband
and caring for that garden
—the beautiful home God gave her.
But, of course, we know
that didn’t happen because of sin,
and along with sin, came stress.
And here we are,
descendants of Adam and Eve.
That’s what we’ve got too
—sin and stress.
But Jehovah helps us, doesn’t he?
And he gives us principles
that can help us make a happy marriage.
Please open to Ecclesiastes.
Now, Ecclesiastes 4:9, 10
describe what a partnership
should be like.
So wives, do you think of yourself
as your husband’s partner?
Well, let’s read verse 9:
“Two are better than one
because they have
a good reward for their hard work.”
So your husband has made a decision,
and maybe you think,
‘I don’t know if that’s the best decision.’
But you’re his partner.
So how will you help him?
Well, you’re going to support
that decision;
you’re going to try to make it work.
And what will be your reward?
Well, first of all, you’re
going to accomplish so much more
by working together
than you could individually.
But more than that,
you’re going to strengthen your friendship
and your partnership with your husband.
Now, in verse 10, it adds:
“For if one of them falls,
the other can help his partner up.
“But what will happen to the one who falls
with no one to help him up?”
You may be thinking,
‘Well, my husband is a strong man,’
and probably so.
But inside,
he may be struggling
with serious insecurities.
At times, he may feel like a failure.
Maybe he’s lost his job
and feels like he’s not a good provider.
You’re his partner.
What are you going to do to lift him up?
Probably, you’re going to share with him
some tactful words
of comfort and encouragement.
That’ll be a happy place.
The book of Proverbs
contains much wisdom,
and some of it is directed to wives.
For example, Proverbs 14:1:
“The truly wise woman
builds up her house,
but the foolish one
tears it down with her own hands.”
So if you are wise,
you will build up, or increase,
respect for your husband
on the part of your children and of others.
You don’t want to be foolish
by speaking negatively
—talking about
your husband’s deficiencies or failures;
nor would you want to undermine
his own confidence
by nagging or arguing with him.
You can do so much
to contribute to a happy house.
For example, at mealtimes,
share in the conversation by adding,
perhaps, a spiritual gem
you found in your Bible reading
or a nice experience
or even a humorous story
—something that will lift
the spirits of the whole family.
Now we want to go
to Proverbs chapter 31,
and probably right away you recognize
this is the chapter
that describes a capable wife.
And I think all of you wives
want to be that.
You want to be that “Proverbs 31” wife.
When you read those verses,
you realize that this woman is very busy.
She’s out there
buying household supplies,
caring for the health
and welfare of her family,
helping others in need,
spending money wisely
—diligently caring for all the duties
of a wife, mother, friend, and neighbor.
We think many of you wives
are doing all of those things.
And you do it day in and day out,
and you don’t complain.
And you’re happy
—happy because you’re giving.
And then you’re even happier
when this happens in verse 28:
“Her children rise up
and declare her happy;
her husband rises up and praises her.”
So they do appreciate what you do.
Sometimes they may not express it,
but they do appreciate it.
There is another element
to a very happy marriage,
and that’s expressed in verse 11:
“Her husband trusts her from his heart,
and he lacks nothing of value.”
Trust is so important in a marriage.
A wife must trust her husband,
and a husband must trust his wife.
You’re going to have conversations;
you’re going to express
your innermost feelings and thoughts.
You must not have fear that
that’s going to be shared with others
or that you’ll be belittled in some way.
No, that’s trust
—a very important aspect of marriage.
So you wives, build up your friendship,
your confidence with your husband.
Now, in verse 12, it adds:
“She rewards him with good, not bad,
all the days of her life.”
So wives, reward your husband with good
—support him on what he has to do—
and we know that he
will love you all the more.
It says “all the days of [your] life.”
So “all the days of [your] life,”
build up that friendship with your husband
whether he is a believer or not.
We have to say in behalf
of the thousands
of hardworking elders
and ministerial servants,
without your faithful support,
it would be much more challenging
to care for our responsibilities.
So thank you very much,
dear wives, for what you’re doing.
Now, sometimes you feel obliged
to speak your mind,
and in a trusting relationship,
that’s expected.
But how will you speak your mind?
Notice verse 26:
“She opens her mouth in wisdom;
the law of kindness is on her tongue.”
So yes, you have
something worthwhile to say,
but how you say it is very, very important.
Will the law of kindness
govern your tongue?
If you say it in kindness,
your husband will love you all the more.
Finally, let’s read verse 30:
“Charm may be false,
and beauty may be fleeting,
but the woman
who fears Jehovah will be praised.”
See, above all,
a capable wife who fears Jehovah
is highly valued and is to be praised.
So you dear wives who fear Jehovah,
you worship him with awe and respect.
And that’s so important
because that helps you
to easily be in subjection to your husband
because you know
that this pleases your heavenly Father.
So as you watch
the following dramatization,
notice how the wife
rejoices in her husband.
I was so tired after work
but glad to finally get home, until . . .
You have to be kidding me.
You’re home, Honey.
I knew he had congregation stuff
to work on,
but seriously?
Tough day?
You were supposed
to talk to the girls about this.
They’re making it a habit.
At first, it upset me
that he didn’t say anything,
but then I began to think.
It’s actually something I’ve come to love
about John—his patience.
He doesn’t overreact.
He’s thoughtful, concerned.
He really listens.
It’s why he’s such a good elder
and why we’ve enjoyed
so many blessings together.
Sometimes I forget,
and I could be more patient.
You know, Honey, you’re right.
This is completely unacceptable.
I’ll talk to the girls as soon
as they come through that door.
Thank you. I love you.
I love you too.
Did you notice how the wife
rejoiced in her husband?
Well, when she walked
into that kitchen, she saw the mess;
she wasn’t rejoicing.
And she wanted to say something
to her husband, and she did.
But how did she say it?
Did she yell at him?
No.
She made her point.
How did the husband react?
He didn’t overreact.
He let her think about it,
and he thought about it.
And as she thought about it,
she thought:
‘You know, he didn’t overreact.
‘That’s one of the things
I love about my husband.
He is so patient.’
And then, of course, he talked with her,
and they resolved the issue.
So love triumphed
over any possible argument or anger.
So continue, dear wives,
to rely on Jehovah
as you work
to make your marriage a delight,
and Jehovah will bless and help you.
Brother Gary Breaux,
a helper to the Service Committee,
will now present the next talk
of this symposium:
“Cultivate Joy in Your Family
—Parents, Rejoice in Your Children.”